Book of Habacuc Chapter 1
Hab 1: 1 The prophecy that the prophet Habakkuk saw. Hab 1: 2 How long, O Lord, will I cry,
and you will not hear; and I will cry out to you because of the violence, and you will not save?
Hab 1: 3 Why do you make me see iniquity, and cause you to see discomfort? Destruction and violence
they stand before me, and strife and contention arise.
Hab 1: 4 Wherefore the law is weakened, and the judgment is not according to the truth; by
as the ungodly besieges the righteous, that is why justice is twisted.
Hab 1: 5 Look among the nations, and see, and be amazed; because I will do a work in your
days, that even when I tell you, you will not believe it.
Hab 1: 6 For, behold, I lift up the Chaldeans, a cruel and hasty nation, who walks
by the width of the earth to possess the dwellings of others.
Hab 1: 7 Formidable is and terrible; from it comes his justice and dignity.
Hab 1: 8 Your horses will be lighter than leopards, and more ferocious than night wolves,
and his riders will multiply; Their riders will come from afar, and they will fly like eagles
who rush to devour. Hab 1: 9 All of it will come to the prey; the horror
go ahead of her, and pick up captives like sand.
Hab 1:10 He will scorn kings, and princes he will mock; will laugh at all
fortress, and will raise embankment and take it. Hab 1:11 Then it will pass like the hurricane, and
he will offend attributing his strength to his god. Hab 1:12 Are you not from the beginning,
O LORD, my God, my Holy One? We will not die. You have put it for judgment, O Jehovah; and you,
Oh Rock, you founded it to punish. Hab 1:13 Very clean you are eyes to see
evil, nor can you see the wrong; Why do you see the despisers, and shut up when
the wicked destroys the righteous more than he, Hab 1:14 and you make men like
the fish of the sea, like reptiles that have no one to govern them?
Hab 1:15 He will take them all out with a hook, he will pick them up with his net, and he will gather them in his
tights; therefore he will rejoice and rejoice. Hab 1:16 For this he will make sacrifices to his net,
and he will offer incense to his tights; because with them he fattened his portion, and greased
their food. Hab 1:17 Will you empty your network for that, and you will not have
pity to annihilate nations continuously? Episode 2
Hab 2: 1 I will be over my guard, and over the fortress I will establish my foot, and will watch over
see what I will be told, and what I have to answer regarding my complaint.
Hab 2: 2 And the LORD answered me, and said, Write the vision, and declare it in tables, that
run the one that I read in it. Hab 2: 3 Although the vision will still take
a time, but hasten to the end, and will not lie; although I will delay, wait for it, because
It will certainly come, it will not be long. Hab 2: 4 Behold, he whose soul is not
straight, he is proud; but the just shall live by his faith.
Hab 2: 5 And also, that which is given to wine is treacherous, a proud man, that shall not stand;
He enlarges his soul like Sheol, and he is like death, which will not be satisfied; before he met
for all the nations, and gathered together all the peoples.
Hab 2: 6 Are they not to raise all these sayings about him, and sarcasm against him?
They will say: Woe to him who multiplied what was not his! How long was it to accumulate
about it, piece after piece? Hab 2: 7 Will not your feet suddenly rise up?
debtors, and those who will make you tremble will awaken, and you will be spoil to them?
Hab 2: 8 Because you have spoiled many nations, all the other nations will plunder you,
because of the blood of men, and of the thefts of the earth, of the cities and
of all those who live in them. Hab 2: 9 Woe to him who covets unjust gain
for his house, to raise his nest, to escape from the power of evil!
Hab 2:10 You took shameful counsel for your house, you laid many peoples desolate, and you have sinned
against your life Hab 2:11 For the stone will cry out from
wall, and the timbered table will respond. Hab 2:12 Woe to him who builds the city with
blood, and from the one who founded a city with iniquity! Hab 2:13 Is not this the LORD of hosts?
The people, then, will work for the fire, and the nations will tire themselves in vain.
Hab 2:14 For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as
the waters cover the sea. Hab 2:15 Woe to him who gives drink to his neighbor!
Woe to you, that you bring him your gall, and make him drunk to look at his nakedness!
Hab 2:16 You have filled yourself with disgrace rather than honor; drink you too, and you will be discovered;
the chalice of the right hand of Jehovah will come to you, and vomit of insult upon your glory.
Hab 2:17 For the plunder of Lebanon will fall on you, and the destruction of wild beasts
it will break you, because of the blood of men, and of the theft of the earth, of the cities
and of all those who lived in them. Hab 2:18 What good is the sculpture that
He carved the one who made it? The casting statue that teaches lies, so that doing
mute images, trust the maker in his work? Hab 2:19 Woe to him who says to the stick, Awake;
and the silent stone: Get up! Can he teach? Behold, it is covered with gold and
silver, and there is no spirit within him. Hab 2:20 But the Lord is in his holy temple;
street before him the whole earth. Chapter 3
Hab 3: 1 Prayer of the prophet Habakkuk, on Sigionot.
Hab 3: 2 O LORD, I have heard your word, and I feared.
O Jehovah, revive your work in the midst of the times,
In the middle of the time make it known; In anger, remember mercy.
Hab 3: 3 God will come from Teman, and the Holy One from Mount Paran. Selah
His glory covered the heavens, And the earth was filled with his praise.
Hab 3: 4 And the brightness was as the light; Bright rays came out of his hand,
And there was his power hidden. Hab 3: 5 In front of his face was death,
And burning coals came out at his feet. Hab 3: 6 He arose, and measured the earth;
He looked, and made the people tremble; The ancient mountains were shredded,
The old hills humbled themselves. His ways are eternal.
Hab 3: 7 I have seen the tents of Cushan in affliction;
The tents of the land of Midian trembled. Hab 3: 8 Have you been angry, O LORD, against the
rivers? Against the rivers did you get angry?
Was your anger against the sea When you rode on your horses,
And in your victory cars? Hab 3: 9 Your bow was discovered entirely;
The oaths to the tribes were sure word. Selah
You split the earth with rivers. Hab 3:10 The mountains saw you and were afraid;
The flood of waters passed; The abyss gave his voice,
Overhead he raised his hands. Hab 3:11 The sun and the moon stood on their
place; In the light of your arrows they went,
And the glow of your bright spear. Hab 3:12 You trampled the land in anger,
With rage you tricked the nations. Hab 3:13 You came out to help your people,
To help your anointed. You have pierced the head of the house of the wicked,
Discovering the foundation to the rock. Selah Hab 3:14 Horadaste with your own darts
the heads of his warriors, who as a storm rushed to disperse me,
Whose rejoicing was like to devour the poor covertly.
Hab 3:15 You walked on the sea with your horses, On the mass of the great waters.
Hab 3:16 I heard, and my bowels were moved; At the voice my lips trembled;
Rottenness entered my bones, and within me I shuddered;
While I will be still in the day of anguish, When I go up to the people who will invade
with your troops. Hab 3:17 Even if the fig tree does not flower,
There is no fruit in the vines, Even if the olive product is missing,
And the tilled ones do not maintain, And the sheep are removed from the fold,
And there are no cows in the corrals; Hab 3:18 Nevertheless, I will rejoice in the Lord,
And I will rejoice in the God of my salvation. Hab 3:19 The Lord GOD is my strength,
Which makes my feet like hinds, And in my heights makes me walk.
To the leader of the singers, on my string instruments.